Everybody, thanks so much for joining us over here. We'll get
started in just a second here. All right. Hey, Julia. Thank you
so much. Can you hear me now?
I can. Yes. Great.
Okay, perfect. Well, we are just waiting for a few people to come
over to the Q&A room.
Great.
So let's give people two minutes or so here.
Okay, sounds good.
Sounds good.
We just had a little fun thing happen where we couldn't hear each other here.
YouTube can hear us. Okay.
Yeah, hopefully so.
Okay, let's see. We're up to 40 people over here in the Q&A. Let me wait till
we get to maybe about 60. And then we'll, we'll get started.
Okay, sounds great.
Just wanted to remind everybody, if you want to ask questions, you can type them
into the YouTube chat here. But you can also use the Slido link, which is shown
on the screen. I will put this into the chat as well for you. There's a little
poll in there that we would love to have you answer just to learn a little bit
more about how you're deploying models today. Okay, we're up to 70 people in the
Q&A room. So I think we can get started and jump in. Thank you so much, Julia, for
the awesome demo and for joining us today. And thank you all for spending time with
us. So nice to see so many of you joining. And I did just want to remind people
again, I know I said this in the beginning, but registration is open for
PositConf 2024. And so I just want to remind everybody about that. If you enjoyed
today's demo, Julia is actually leading a workshop at PositConf as well. And I was
thinking, Julia, before we jump in, maybe you could tell us a little bit about the
workshop at Conf and what that will cover.
Yeah, so I am pretty excited about this workshop. I'm teaching it with my coworker
Isabelle Zimmerman, who also works on the Vetiver team, working on Vetiver. And
actually, this workshop last year when we did it, it was the first time we had ever
done a workshop where people were working in R and Python at the same time. Like in
the room, we taught it with R and Python together. And it was I feel like it was a
really interesting learning opportunity for people who were there. We had quite a
number of people who maybe felt like they were most comfortable with R and they
started with R. And then when they saw how approachable these tasks were in Python as
well, they kind of like switched over and like people tried both, which was really
interesting. It went quite smoothly having both R and Python users together in the
room. So if I were to say what is it covering? We're not covering much about model
development. So I think there are some other workshops that are covering that. So
when we were watching this video together today, we saw me do EDA, then train a model
and then deploy the model. And so the workshop just covers the deployment piece. So
we'll talk about how we version models, how we can like think about keeping model
artifacts in a in a reliable way along with the metadata that belongs to them. We'll
talk about we'll talk about like model model repositories, like what does that mean?
What do you want to make sure is in a model repository? We'll talk about deploying
models. What are different ways that you can do that? And then we will talk about
monitoring models. And that's something we didn't cover so much today today in this
workshop. Like once a model is in production, how do you monitor its performance over
time so that you can find you can know when you need to retrain it, know when you're
going to have problems with it. So it's those pieces. The workshop at Conf is divided, I
would say, between using our pro products and not. So, for example, when we talk about
how to deploy a model, we'll first show you how to deploy on Kinect, because like we
talked about in this demo, the experience really can be so seamless and is so well
suited to you as a data scientist. But we also show you how do you deploy your models
in other ways, like with Docker. And so one of the things that I love about working on
tools like pins and vetiver is that they can be moved around to the different kind of
infrastructure that is right for you and is right for your org at its current level of
maturity. You know, so like if you start with storing your models on a shared network
drive, you can do that and then like move later to Kinect. And if that becomes
inappropriate, you can move later to an S3 bucket. And you don't need to change much
about your approach, but rather you can, you know, scale up and down, move to different
kind of infrastructure. If it's right for you to deploy to Kinect, you can do that. If
it's right for you to deploy to, you know, some other cloud platform using Docker, you
can do that as well. So it'll be a fairly like, here's all the different ways you can
do it at that workshop. I'm pretty excited about teaching it again.
That's awesome. Thank you. And I see Kyle just commented, he's going to be joining for
that workshop.
That's so good. I'm really looking forward to it.
I just wanted to add for anybody who just joined now for the live Q&A, you can ask
questions right in the YouTube chat if you want to. Or you can also ask questions
anonymously using Slido. And so there's this short link on the screen where you can go
over to Slido. There's a poll that we're running in there to learn more from you about
how you're currently deploying models to and would love to see you answer that. Even if
you don't want to ask questions anonymously, that's over on on Slido there. But let me
jump into some that I see popping up here in YouTube. Aaron had asked, how does this
process compared to using MLflow? Is one better than the other? Specifically, if the
model will eventually live in an environment such as Databricks?
Yeah, this is a great question. So MLflow is some things that are similar between using
Vetiver and using MLflow is that they both provide you ways to version your model, store
your model in some kind of like a place where you keep your artifacts together in an
organized way and have ways to deploy models. Some things that are different is that if
you are going to deploy or even develop like work on your model, how you're going to
like, how are you going to go about deploying it? Like you want to run it locally and debug.
When you do that in with MLflow, you have to have the whole MLflow server running. Whereas
when you use Vetiver, you're using REST APIs. And so they're much more lightweight. So I
would say the the development, the local development experience is easier to get going
with on with Vetiver compared to MLflow. The Vetiver was built explicitly with so that the
barrier to entry is as low as possible, like it's appropriate for someone who is deploying
their first model. And then it can grow with the person and the org as like needs for
complexity and scale grow. MLflow is built not so much for like data science persona, but
more for a software engineer persona. If you are a Databricks customer, that's fully
managed MLflow. And so basically the money you're paying to Databricks is for them to do a
lot of that management and keeping it up. So the experience is different if you're like a
Databricks customer using MLflow there. The issue there is that if you want to deploy
models using R, like you train the model using R, unfortunately, the MLflow experience is
not great because it is it is not there's not there's not good support for it. Like if you
want to the MLflow flavors, which you may have looked at, it's not great there. We're
actually we're actually like talking with Databricks about this, like what can we do to
improve the situation. So if there are specific kinds of models you want to deploy to
Databricks, I recommend you communicate that up to maybe like your Databricks people so that
we can have really good information about what the priorities are and how we should invest
in say, making the MLflow on Databricks for our experience better. If you're training a
Python model, and you're a Databricks customer, it probably makes sense just to go to
MLflow. If that's the situation you're in.
Thank you. I thought it might be just worth mentioning here just because it came up is
that Posit and Databricks have a close partnership as well. And we have a new Posit and
Databricks site I just put into the chat there as well.
Yeah, yeah, a lot of things are working really well. And the piece that we're trying to
decide how to invest in is MLflow. So we would love to, we would love to hear more about
what you're trying to do.
Absolutely. I see David just asked a question a bit ago. Does Posit Connect allow you to
compare metrics between different versions of the models?
Yes. So if these are metrics, say you train the model one week with some training data, and
you, and you store that as model metadata, then you read it's like, oh, time to retrain the
model. Let me go about like, oh, how good did this model do last time? Let me go and check the
model metadata. So Connect provides you, Connect plus Pins provides you an approach and an
infrastructure for building a model repository. Like here are where all my models live along
with the metadata that we need to keep for them. Some of this model metadata is
automatically extracted out. But then if there are specific things you need to know, which
often you do with metrics, often metrics are strongly linked to certain business outcomes.
And so it's like a very specific kind of metric that you need to measure, then you can
customize that. Like you can customize what goes in there, which is one of the things that we
really want to, when we talk to people about their like metrics needs and monitoring kinds of
needs, we found that there's quite heterogeneous needs. And so we knew we had to embrace a lot of
customization, make it quite straightforward for people to use like a code first approach to be
able to specify what kind of metrics they needed to keep.
Thank you. See, Jeff had asked, I may have missed it, but is the deployed model served with the
plumber package? What open API spec renderer does it use?
So vetiver for R wraps plumber with like model aware endpoints, metadata, information. On the
Python side, vetiver for Python wraps fast API with the same kinds of like model awareness. You
know, we certainly don't need to be like rewriting how to do REST APIs when we have these
wonderful general purpose tools for making REST APIs. However, if you were to, you know, like, I
need to make a plumber API for my model, like there's a lot of boilerplate best practices kinds
of things that vetiver provides, because there are things you need every time when you have a
model. Because it is a plumber API in R or a fast API in Python, you know, defaults work out of the
box, you get something that's useful, you know, for maybe like the 80% use case. But you can also
extend these and customize these. In R, you can just like pipe and add new endpoints if you need
to. You can, you can edit like we actually generate plumber files that you can then go in and edit in
the way that you need. Same thing with fast API. In fast API, we have the ability to add custom
handlers in a quite straightforward way. The open API also gets like the that's how you for those of
you who don't know, open API specifications are ways that that kind of visual documentation gets
generated, and also some of the validation and whatnot that happens. So the vetiver in R and
Python automatically generates these open API specifications, because you can you can learn a lot
of what you need from the model. So we can automatically extract a lot of that to make this
this like nice visual documentation for you to use. And the specific you probably notice it's not
swagger, it's not swagger. And let me just find the name for you have the one that we do use. So
this is more about styling, like, how does it? Why does it look the way it does? And how is it
organized? And the one that we use is called, let me find it. Um, oh, my gosh, let me find it. I'm
not remembering exactly the name of it. It's not swagger. Rapid Doc, Rapid Doc, that's the name of
it. Rap. So like rapid OC Rapid Doc. So it's, it's a rapid doc styling of the open API
specification. I thought we showed people like these different options and thought that it was a
little better fit for the model use case than the than swagger. This is something you can change,
like if you want to, you can change the swagger if you prefer it.
Thank you, I wanted to just remind everybody, I shared this, probably in the beginning of the
demo, but Julia actually put together this follow along blog post as well, which goes through the
example too. So I just want to make sure I share that again in the chat here. Let me go up to some
questions asked a little bit earlier. Brendan had asked, what are some best practices when it
comes to storing predictions in real time when using the vetiver API? So the predictions that
come out are coming out as responses from a rest API. So it's cut, it's like, here it is, here it
is. And people use these in different ways. Sometimes people do what's called like batch
prediction. So maybe they need to, you know, it's time to generate predictions for this day's
X, you know, customers or the new orders that came in or whatever. And so you say, take the,
take everything that happened in the last day, send it to the API for that whole batch, get
predictions, and then they'll come back. And then they, you know, when I say come back,
what do I mean? You can mean a lot of different things. It could mean coming back into R,
and then we do something in R, some analysis, we make a report. It could mean coming back into
Python. We, it gets in some kind of an app. It could mean coming back via like into,
into JavaScript and doing something that we're displaying in a website. Because it's rest APIs,
it's very flexible where the predictions end up. We, the, this question, Brendan asked about
real time. And sometimes what people, when people mean when they say that is like, I have
a new person or customer or order or thing, and it's here, it's ready. And I, I need the
prediction right now for this one thing. And so then we, the API says, ha, okay, here you go.
Here is the prediction for that one. And then typically, if you need something in real time,
you, you aren't going to store it, but rather you're going to take some action with it. Maybe
it comes back into JavaScript, into the website, and then you're going to take some action based
on it. Typically if people are storing, I haven't heard about that that much, about like storing it.
If you're going to hear about storing predictions more in typically like with, with batch prediction,
and often what people do, will do then is write them to, to a database so that we have,
say, a database of all the predictions we ever made. And we can go back and look at them or if
that's needed for the situation. I guess if you had a use case where you did need to store the
prediction that you made, maybe for compliance or auditing reasons, like you need to know
later, what did we do? Typically you, you, you would log that in a database. If you're at the
kind of scale where you're making like lots of real time predictions, you will typically want to
store that into a database. Since it is API, like a REST API that you're interacting with,
you, you know, you can do this not with, like if it's part of some larger production system, like
you, you're probably not going to be using R to store from a REST API to a database. Like there's
lots of very performance scalable tools that you can, you can do that with. So those are some of
my thoughts on that kind of, those kinds of best practices. Thank you. I want to make sure I go and
grab some questions over from Slido too. So just a reminder, if you don't want to post in YouTube,
you can ask over there on Slido. But somebody had asked, guidance on building checkpoints into
models to verify if data sources are being populated. I think they discovered later source
files were missing and stats were incorrect. This is a pretty common failure mode is that you,
if I'm understanding this question, we, we deploy a model and it's chugging along and it
is going to give predictions and then something actually changes in our system such that the data
coming in has changed in some way. So I have two things I kind of want to point you to about this.
The first is that Vetiver has some of these checks built in. Vetiver uses what we call
an input data prototype. Basically, let me talk about the shape and the characteristics of the
input data for the model. Let me record that as metadata, as part of the model, and then we will
check it whenever we make a prediction and check that was coming in, like, complies with the input
data prototype. This can also be customized. You can actually make stricter checks or you can turn
it off if for some reason that's appropriate to you. So the default is a kind of middle road in
terms of strictness of this getting checked. So basically what happens here is instead of
finding out some data was missing and you're just getting wrong answers, instead it errors. So you
immediately know, like you immediately know. The other thing that's going on here is that this is
kind of a question about model monitoring. And I gave a talk last year at PositConf, like a talk
that was called Reliable Maintenance of Machine Learning Models. And it walks through the different
kinds of monitoring you can do. So I would say, like, what kind of checkpoints are we talking
about? We can have checkpoints about making a prediction that the data complies with what I
know the shape of it needs to be. Then you say here the stats were incorrect. And, like, that
can be a statement about, like, the distribution of the input data or even, like, the output
predictions that we get. And so in that talk, which I definitely recommend you take a look at
if you're, like, thinking about this thing, we talk about how to build a strategy so that we
monitor models over the long run. So in that talk, we talk about monitoring inputs for things like
data drift and then monitoring both inputs and outputs for something like things like concept
drift. So I recommend you check that out. I was going to go try and find the link to it,
but you might be able to find it quicker than me. I know some people have to drop at the top
of the hour. So I did just want to say here, thank you so much for joining us today. And
thank you to anybody watching the recording later as well. As a reminder, we have these workflow
demos the last Wednesday of every month. And so if you do want to join us live for the next one,
you can add these to your calendar with the link I shared here in the chat. I'll show it on the
screen as well. My colleague Isabella is going to lead next month's demo on Cordo dashboards
as well. So I just want to give everybody a preview of what's to come next month. But thank
you so much. I just wanted to say that before some people have to drop. But Julia, do you have
a few more minutes? I do. I do. Okay. Awesome. One other question I see that came in in YouTube
from Hamed is how easily can we deploy PyTorch models with Vetiver? My own experience in Python
is that simpler models are pretty seamless, but I started hitting problems with PyTorch.
So PyTorch is one of the models that the types of models that the Python,
the Python Vetiver package supports. And so we expect this to work quite well. We expect it to
work quite well. So far, people that we know about using it have had good experiences with it.
We certainly are interested in hearing on specific kinds of problems as you run into them. But I
would say we expect it to work. Give it a go. And we would love to hear about any problems you run
into. Somebody had asked a question a bit earlier about the difference between the paid and unpaid
products. And I thought maybe it would be helpful to just cover where in the world it was. Free
tools, which is true. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I bet a lot of you are users of the RStudio IDE.
And that is a that is not only free, but also open source products. Like you can actually see
the code that goes into making RStudio the IDE. There's a desktop app that you like download and
use that is, like, free for all use cases, including commercial and all that kind of thing.
Now, there are paid professional products that we that we make that are a little more designed
for the enterprise use case. So if we want to specifically talk about RStudio, like we have
a product that's called Posit Workbench. And what Posit Workbench is is a product that provides you
with multiple different choices of IDEs for your data science work. So you can choose between,
like, JupyterLab and RStudio and different IDEs that people like to use for data science work.
And so the reason why companies pay for RStudio Workbench is for the, like, enterprise type
features that people need. Things like can we use this with single sign on and authentication?
Can we use this with our certain security needs that we have around where people do their model
development? So we see people choosing to for the pro products for a variety of reasons. But
those are those are some of kind of the differences. Rachel, do you want to add anything to that?
No, I think you've covered that really well. I would add that Posit Connect that you saw today
is also one of the paid products. And so Julia showed today deploying a model to Posit Connect,
but a lot of our other customers use Connect to deploy dash apps or Shiny applications,
Flask APIs, a variety of different data products built in R and Python. And I guess
just to wrap it up, I guess, so the package manager has a there's a there's Posit public
package manager, which provides these really convenient binaries that you can use, like when
you make Docker containers. But Posit, but package manager also is a paid product that, for example,
an enterprise would use internally. And so the use cases for that would be we have internal packages,
we need to make really easy for everyone inside of our organization to use. Or we have compliance
needs about people using specific versions of packages that have been vetted and put on a,
you know, like on a on a allow list, like these are the packages people are allowed to use. And
so if you hook up your, you know, your ID to the package manager, you can get those kind of
guarantees that you need. So just to kind of wrap up for all three that we talked about today.
Absolutely. One of the questions we missed from earlier was about Posit Connect specifically,
and it was, is there a way to deploy to Posit Connect via Dockerization or containerization?
So it kind of works that way. Now. So when you when I showed you in the demo,
that ever deploy RS Connect, and it went and it made a little bundle and put it like the that is a
standalone environment that is separated from everything else. So a lot of the reasons you
might choose containerization already work with Connect. Now, if you're saying I literally have
a Docker container, and I want it to go to Connect, that is a feature request that I believe,
you know, Connect is like the Connect team is talking about. So if you're asking, is there a
way to do something like it where it you get the benefits of it, that's that is how Connect works
already. If the question is, I literally want to take my Docker container, then not as of today,
but it's something that I know the Connect team talks about.
And I'll just add here to if any of the questions are ones that you want to dig deeper into or chat
with our team about and kind of explain your situation. And you can always schedule time to
chat with us. So I just put this link on the screen here. And I'll share that again in the
chat in just a second. I think we have time for maybe two more questions. Let me see what I've
missed. Sergio asked, is it possible to create a log file of a deployed model where we can find
the input data, the output of the recipe and the prediction? This may be useful for the monitoring.
So the answer is, yes, it is possible. We don't do this by default right now. So you don't default
get the logging. But since we are talking about FastAPI and Plumber, there are already tools
out there that allow you to kind of like add a line of code, and then start producing those
kinds of logs. And then say you deployed a model to Connect. We'll say an R model to Connect. It's
Vetiver. It's Plumber. You add one of these packages that has like default plus extensible
logging for Plumber APIs. And then it starts going into the logs of the Plumber API on Connect. And
you see that there. So we didn't want to build these things from scratch because it's a little
bit more about general software engineering practices. But we wanted, like with everything,
with how we think about Vetiver, we want to make it very straightforward to integrate into
these other kinds of tools, depending on what your needs are. Thank you. I think we actually
got through every question. And this one feels like a great one to end on. Jeff asked, where is
Vetiver in its development life cycle today? Yeah, this is a great question. I think I'm going
to quickly look and see if we have like a badge on it. I think we may still have, we still are
calling it experimental, which I think is a little bit maybe not accurate. Maybe we should move that
the badge says experimental on it. And I think we should probably bump that up to something like
stable. Because the core functionality is quite stable now. When we have been looking at new
features for Vetiver lately, we have been talking about Vetiver on platform. So like Vetiver on
SageMaker. We've talked about, so that one exists today. You can use Vetiver on SageMaker. And then
when we talk about like what else would we do for further development, the things that we talked
about that don't exist as of today would be like Vetiver for MLflow. Like we mentioned that earlier.
That's especially relevant to people who use Databricks. We've talked about Vetiver on
the Google Cloud, the Vertex AI is what it's called. Like Google Cloud's kind of
MLE system thing. Like how can we go there? So those are the things we talk about now in terms
of development lifecycle. Where do people want to take their models? So right now we have options
like Connect, of course, very straightforward. Docker, which you can take anywhere. And then how can we
make the process easier to take to different kinds of platforms? So today SageMaker works.
Where else would we go with it? So I think I would say core functionality, core decisions
that we made about what is Vetiver, quite stable. And our forward facing work is like where might we
want to take this? Thank you so much. Thank you all so much for joining us too. And I just
wanted to add here, your feedback on these workflow demos has been so helpful. And so I would love to
learn what other things you would like to see. What could we be doing to make these more helpful
for you as well? So if you have maybe 20 seconds to do this for me after today's session, I would
greatly appreciate your feedback. I just put a Google form into the chat here. This is really
helpful for me as I figure out what do we prioritize here in terms of community events as well.
But thank you so much, Julia, for the awesome demo. I thought this was amazing. And I love that you
had a blog post like ready to go right when it launched. Thank you again. Yeah, thank you for
having me so much. I saw somebody's comment in the Slido. So I wanted to echo this as well. Julia,
thank you for all that you do to educate us all in the content that you put out on your own YouTube
too. In the workflow demo, I linked to Julia's own personal YouTube there. And I highly recommend
that you go check it out. And again, if you want to join us for another one of these, we have them
the last Wednesday of every month. And so Isabella is going to be leading one on Cordo dashboards
next month. But have a great rest of the day, everybody. Thank you so much.